# DL_for_Convex_Hull
Input is a file with the coordinates of all points. The first neural Net called simple NN is used to predict whether a point is a part of the convex hull. The input is all points and the point under consideration as the first point. It tries to see if the point can be linearly separated from the other points, meaning that the point will indeed form a vertex of the convex hull. The model predicts 1 if the point is a hull vertex and 0 otherwise ideally and probability ranges from 0 to 1.
● Once the hull vertices are chosen from the given bunch of vertices, the points need to be displayed as sorted angularly with respect to an internal point like a centroid. A pointer network is trained for the same. The model looks at the input points and “predicts” the same number of points which are ordered and are approximately equal to the input points. Using a prediction model eliminates the chance of repetition of points in the sequences and the use of masks to prevent that, the issue we faced in the 1st approach.
● We have considered 5 points as the maximum limit while training and testing the network. The primary challenge we faced with higher point dataset was the high loading time for each epoch. Nevertheless the approach works for higher point dataset because instead of padding with 0 value arrays, we can pad with repeated vertices in the input. Eg: if the limit was 10 and we input 6 points, the rest 4 can be repetitions. While inputting in simple NN, we can choose the 4 from 5 of the vertices except the one under consideration and the model will still predict the linear separability of the 1st point
